# python-api-challenge
Application of Python requests, APIs, and JSONs to examine weather trends from a random selection of over 500 cities. Weather data retrieved from OpenWeatherMap API for a list of cities generated by code in WeatherPy.ipynb (in WeatherPy folder). The weather data is stored in the cities.csv file. Please note that retrieval results may differ every time the code is run as the cities data is based on random coordinates and different query times


### Part 1 
A series of scatter plots and regression plots were used to examine relationships between latitude and a variety of different weather conditions (e.g., Cloudiness, Temperature). Detailed descriptions and discussions about these relationships are provided in Weather.ipynb.

### Part 2 
The weather data was used in conjunction with Geoapify API and the geoViews Python library to create map visualisations. These interactive visualisations identify hotels within the radius of 10km of each set of coordinates that reflect cities with your preferred weather conditions. 

Currently, the following condition filters are available (with sample settings in parentheses): Temperature Range (between 10-25 degrees celsius), Cloudiness (not more than 30%), Wind Speed (less than 8 metres/second), and Humidity (less than 50%). You may also choose to filter out certain countries.

Run 'plot_idealvacay' in VacationPy.ipynb for a sample of the final application.

## APIs

OpenWeatherMap API (https://openweathermap.org/api)

Geoapify API

## packages & dependencies

hvplot.pandas

matplotlib.pylplot

pandas

numpy

requests

json

time

scipy.stats

## Folder Contents
### 'WeatherPy'

WeatherPy.ipynb: Contains code for retrieving weather data from the respective API and generation of relevant plots. 

'output_data' folder: Stores cities.csv as well as any figures generated from running WeatherPy.ipynb.


### 'VacationPy'

VacationPy.ipynb: Contains code for specifying ideal weather conditions and sieve for hotels in cities that have preferred weather conditions.
